.\" 
.\" slwi.sh.1 - slwi.sh manual
.\" 
.\" Written in 2021 by TpaeFawzen (https://github.com/GH-TpaeFawzen)
.\" 
.\" To the extent possible under law, the author(s) have dedicated all copyright and related and neighboring rights to this software to the public domain worldwide. This software is distributed without any warranty.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the CC0 Public Domain Dedication along with this software. If not, see <http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/>.
.\" 
.\"
.\" slwi.sh.1 -- slwi.sh manual
.\"
.\" - REPOSITORY section
.\" - REPORTING A BUG section
.\" - AND COPYING
.\"
.\" written by GH-TpaeFawzen on 2021/01/18 17:41
.\" (The time above is in JST)
.\"
.TH SLWI.SH 1 "2021-01-18"
.SH NAME
slwi.sh \- itflabtijtslwi interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B slwi.sh
[\fB\-?\fR|\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR|\fB\-\-usage\fR]
[\fB\-d\fR[\fB1\fR|\fB2\fR]\fR]
[\fB\-\-shut\-up\fR]
[\fIFILE\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B slwi.sh
is an interpreter for an esoteric language
.B itflabtijtslwi
, which stand for
.I ignore this fancy little acronym, because this is just that slashes language with input
, implemented in POSIX-compliant shell language script with POSIX-compliant utilities.
The required utilities are:
.BR sh\fR,
.BR umask\fR,
.BR getconf \fR
(optional),
.BR cat\fR,
.BR printf\fR,
.BR test\fR,
.BR od\fR,
.BR tr\fR,
.BR sed\fR,
.BR grep\fR,
.BR echo\fR,
.BR head\fR,
.BR awk \fR,
and
.BR xargs\fR.
.PP
If \fIFILE\fR is given, \fBslwi.sh\fR first examines if the file is readable, and is
one of a regular file, a character special, or a FIFO file.
However, if \fIFILE\fR is one of null string, \fI\-\fR, \fI/dev/stdin\fR, 
\fI/dev/fd/0\fR, or \fI/proc/self/fd/0\fR, then \fBslwi.sh\fR behaves as if
\fIFILE\fR is not given, thus the examination is not done and
the \fBitflabtijtslwi\fR program is read from STDIN.
If this examination fails, \fBslwi.sh\fR aborts the program.
Finally, \fIFILE\fR is read as \fBitflabtijtslwi\fR program source
to run, accepting some input string from STDIN if needed.
.PP
If \fIFILE\fR is not given, the \fBitflabtijtslwi\fR program source and the input for
the program are read from STDIN, both terminated with single EOF.
.PP
In both case, both \fBitflabtijtslwi\fR program and its input string may have
any binary characters. They are treated as ASCII strings.
.PP
Finally, if input string for the \fBitflabtijtslwi\fR is to be given from your
terminal, \fBslwi.sh\fR notifies end of \fBitflabtijtslwi\fR program,
by outputting a message to STDERR.
This feature can be disabled by \fI\-\-shut\-up\fR, as described in OPTION.
.SH OPTION
.TP
.B \-?, \-h, \-\-help, \-\-usage
Display usage of the \fBslwi.sh\fR to STDERR to terminate.
.TP
.B \-d
Do a debug mode: it outputs remaining \fBitflabtijtslwi\fR program every time
the following condition happens, to STDERR.
If this option is specified with no argument, this program behaves as if
\fB\-d2\fR were specified.
.IP
.B \-d1
Every time after 
.B itflabtij
program itself output something.
.IP
.B \-d2
Before every step.
.TP
.B \-\-shut\-up
Disables notification that outputted
when \fBitflabtijtslwi\fR program terminates and its input is
given from your terminal directly.
.SH ARGUMENT
.TP
.I FILE
\fBitflabtijtslwi\fR source file. If it is not given, or one of
null string, \fI\-\fR, \fI/dev/stdin\fR, 
\fI/dev/fd/0\fR, or \fI/proc/self/fd/0\fR, then
the \fBitflabtijtslwi\fR program source is given from STDIN.
.SH STDIN
The STDIN is used for giving \fBitflabtijtslwi\fR source file and
its input.
.SH STDOUT
Used for output by \fBitflabtijtslwi\fR program.
.SH STDERR
Used for displaying usage, debugging, and some diagonal messages.
.PP
In debbugin mode the remaining program is output in following format:
.sp
.RS 44
.nf

"[%s]\en", <\fIprogram\fR>
.fi
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
Successfully terminated.
.TP
1
Displayed usage of program.
.TP
31
\fIFILE\fR is not readable, or a readable type of file.
.TP
66
Unintended error on \fBitflabtijtslwi\fR interpreter.
.TP
Others
Unintended errors.
.SH AUTHOR
TpaeFawzen
.UR https://github.com/GH-TpaeFawzen
.UE
.SH ONLINE REPOSITORY
The online repository for
.B slwi.sh
can be found in: 
.UR https://github.com/GH-TpaeFawzen/slwi.sh
.UE
.SH REPORTING A BUG
Please report anything that is out of exception on:
.UR https://github.com/GH-TpaeFawzen/slwi.sh/issues
.UE
.SH COPYING
.I slwi.sh
is licensed under CC0 1.0 Universal.
